TECHNOLOGY  DISCLOSURE  FORM  
PRIVILEGED  AND CONFIDENTIAL  
23-T-088 
01/19/2023  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1 
 
This form is intended for University of Chicago, UChicago Medicine, Marine Biological Laboratory,  & 
Toyota Technical Institute faculty, researchers, and staff. Otherwise, if you would like assistance with 
your technology,  consider  becoming a member  of the Polsky Exchange (more  information at 
polsky.uchicago.edu/become- a-member/).  
This form requests  the minimum  information needed  to effectively  evaluate your  disclosed 
technology  (including  software).  As the disclosing  inventor,  and/or  as the recipient  of sponsored 
research,  it is your obligation to provide a thorough and candid disclosure.  Note,  submitting a 
Technology Disclosure does not provide patent protection. To learn more about the patent process, 
or if you have any other questions when completing this form, please contact our office at 
773.702.1692 or inventions@uchicago.edu.  
 
CON F I D E N T I A L I T Y N OT I C E 
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. IF YOU ARE NOT THE DISCLOSING 
INVENTOR OR AN INDIVIDUAL GRANTED EXPLICIT ACCESS TO REVIEW AND/OR EDIT THE 
INFORMATION  CONTAINED  HEREIN,  OR IF YOU BELIEVE  YOU MAY HAVE  RECEIVED  THIS FORM 
IN ERROR, PLEASE NOTIFY THE POLSKY CENTER IMMEDIATELY AT 773.702.1692 OR 
POLSKYLICENSING@UCHICAGO.EDU.  
2  
  
I. TITLE  OF TECHNOLOGY  
Methods  and systems  for collecting  and analyzing  exhaled  breath  condensate  in the ambient  
II. TECHNOLOGY  INTAKE  QUESTIONS  
A. Thoroughly describe what the technology is (What does the technology do? What is the significance of the 
technology?).  
Our device  monitors  human  health  and wellness  through  the air. 
 
The majority of exhaled breath consists of atmospheric gases, but some of the air released from 
deep inside the lungs contains small molecules called volatile organic compound s (VOCs) that 
can provide information about the body’s metabolism and health; all breath contains microscopic 
water droplet condensates with VOCs and other components that can be important sources of 
data (Arnold, 2022). The collection of exhaled breath con densate (EBC) allows one to monitor the 
wellness of the patient and contains valuable clues about physical and mental health.  
 
Based on recently developed nanostructured surfaces and bioelectronics, we designed  this device 
to effectively collect and analyze the atmospheric EBC components. Traditionally, EBCs are 
collected in a sealed chamber, not directly from the atmosphere. This is to increase the collection 
efficiency. We overcome this challenge by deploying nanostructured condenser surface, which can enhance the steam condensation rate by 10x, so efficient sample collec tion can be achieved 
even in an 
open environment. On the se nsing part, bulky and expensive gas chromatography (GC) 
and liquid chromatography (LC) devices were the go -to methods. Our design utilizes  flexible 
bioelectronics to bypass the need of GC and LC, allowing for on-line analysis and portable device 
design.  
 
By directly collecting EBC biomarkers from the air, our portable device can achieve unprecedented 
health monitoring, including the following  three ways:  
 
1) Public health. Traditional EBC collection applies to one patient at a time. Our device applies to 
one indoor  space at a time, i.e., we can collect  biomarkers  from all the patients  that stay in a 
room.  It can be used to monitor  public  physical  wellness,  infectious  disease,  and mental  states.  
 
2) Neonatology.  Collecting  biomarkers  from critically  ill infants  represents  a major  challenge in 
neonatology,  as the method should  be as non-invasive  as possible.  Our device  requires  no physical 
contact  with the patient,  and can therefore be useful  for the healthcare of premature infants.  
 
3) Continuous monitoring. Traditional EBC collection usually takes  less than 20 minutes , otherwise 
it will cause inconvenience and physical discomfort to the patient . Since the VOCs in EBC have  an 
intrinsic  low concentration,  the limitation  of sampling time fundamentally  limits  the sensitivity  of 
EBC analysis.  Our device allows  for continuous  monitoring because it does not interfere with the 
patient’s  normal  daily activity.  Monitoring overnight  is also possible.  
 
 
 
 

3  
 B. Is the disclosed technology related to any existing technology , published patent applications, and/or 
academic papers  (i.e., potential  “prior  art”) of which  you are aware?  If yes, explain.  
1. EBC collectors.  
Arnold, C. Diagnostics to take your breath away.  Nat Biotechnol  40, 990– 993 (2022).  
As mentioned above, many closed -system EBC collectors are invented starting from the 1950s. 
More commercialized products are well -summarized in Table 1 of the article: 
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587- 022-01385- 0/tables/1.  
 
2. Bioelectronics. 
Electrochemical  sensors:  
Wang,  M., Yang,  Y., Min, J. et al. A wearable electrochemical  biosensor  for the monitoring  of 
metabolites and nutrients. Nat. Biomed. Eng 6, 1225 –1235 (2022)  
Field -effect  transistor -based sensors:  
Wang,  B., Yang,  D., Chang,  Z., Zhang,  R., Dai, J., & Fang,  Y. (2022).  Wearable bioelectronic 
masks for wireless detection of respiratory infectious diseases by gaseous media. Matter.  
 
3. Nanostructure surfaces  for enhanced condensation. 
See patents including:  
E.N. Wang,  R. Enright,  Y. Nam,  N. Miljkovic.  Superhydrophobic  Nanostructures,  Application 
#: US 20130244001A1  
R. Xiao,  N. Miljkovic,  R. Enright,  E.N. Wang.  Heterogeneous  Surfaces.  US 9,689,631 
Published articles:  
Boreyko,  J. B., & Chen,  C. H. (2009).  Self-propelled dropwise  condensate on superhydrophobic 
surfaces. Physical review letters, 103(18), 184501.  
Miljkovic,  N., Enright,  R., Nam,  Y., Lopez,  K., Dou,  N., Sack,  J., & Wang,  E. N. (2013).  Jumping-  
droplet -enhanced condensation on scalable superhydrophobic nanostructured surfaces. Nano 
letters, 13(1), 179 -187. 
C. How is the technology  an improvement  over any existing  technologies  or prior art? 
As mentioned above, our device allows for public health monitoring, continuous monitoring, and 
complete non-invasiveness.  None  of the existing  close d-system  EBC collectors  can achieve  any one 
of the three  features.  
 
The sensor  device  can be made flexible  to conform  to any type of hard or soft surface , from 
workplace  tabletops  and ventilation fans, to textiles  and human skin. As the sensor  can be 
positioned in conjunction to the nanostructured surface  with controllable  condensing profiles,  we 
could achieve multiplexed detection with high accuracy. We have conceptualized at least three  
types of sensing techniques to achieve ultra-low concentration biomarkers  detection.  
The first sensing method is based on affinity -based electrochemical redox reactions. Bioreceptors 
are grafted on the working electrode surface for binding specific biomarkers. The concentration of 
biomarkers will be reflected as the change in impedance measurements or shifts in redox peaks in 
cyclic voltammetry  measurements.  
The second sensing  method utilizes  the field-effect  transistor  platform  for its good signal 
amplification properties.  Specific  bioreceptors  will be immobilized  on the active  channel  layer. 
Upon binding with the biomarkers, it changes the active -layer charging states which yield changes 
in the drain current.  This method can potentially  detect  sub-nanomolar  species  in the analyte.  
The third method is to exclusively utilize the condensation surface to convert the volatile 
sample into a liquid solution, which can then be analyzed using liquid/solid chromatography 
mass spectrometry (LC/GC -MS).  
D. Have you discussed the technology with any potential commercial partners? If not, do you plan to?  
If yes, please  identify  any commercial  partners  that may be interested  in licensing  and further 
developing the technology.  
4  
 We haven’t.  
4